FOCUS #243: SKU Price ID Dimension (#244)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/dimensions/skupriceid.md

# SKU Price ID

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the list unit price associated with the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the list unit price. The composition of the properties associated with the SKU Price ID may differ across providers. SKU Price ID is commonly used for analyzing cost based on pricing properties such as Terms and Tiers.

Reviewer: `SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the list unit price.`

I have always thought of list unit price as OnDemand Price. 

From the internet:
* List price is ALMOST always the top most price offered
* The list price is the standard price

I assume the SKUPriceId will also point at the discounted rates.

> The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. SkuPriceId MUST define a single list unit price. The ListUnitPrice corresponding to a SkuPriceId MUST be the same value as the list unit price in the provider published pricing sheet. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeType is ‘Purchase’ or ‘Usage’. The SkuPriceId SHOULD NOT be null when ChargeSubcategory is ‘Refund’.

Reviewer: `SkuPriceId MUST define a single list unit price. The ListUnitPrice corresponding to a SkuPriceId MUST be the same value as the list unit price in the provider published pricing sheet`

I have always thought of list unit price as OnDemand Price. 

From the internet:
* List price is ALMOST always the top most price offered
* The list price is the standard price

I assume the SKUPriceId will also point at the discounted rates.

Author: Resolved based on other suggestion.

> # SKU Price ID
> 
> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the list unit price associated with the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the list unit price. The composition of the properties associated with the SKU Price ID may differ across providers. SKU Price ID is commonly used for analyzing cost based on pricing properties such as Terms and Tiers.
> 
> The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. SkuPriceId MUST define a single list unit price. The ListUnitPrice corresponding to a SkuPriceId MUST be the same value as the list unit price in the provider published pricing sheet. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeType is ‘Purchase’ or ‘Usage’. The SkuPriceId SHOULD NOT be null when ChargeSubcategory is ‘Refund’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# SKU Price ID

A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the unit price used to calculate the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information, including a corresponding list unit price. The composition of the properties associated with the SKU Price ID may differ across providers. SKU Price ID is commonly used for analyzing cost based on pricing properties such as Terms and Tiers.

The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. SkuPriceId MUST define a single unit price used for calculating the charge. The ListUnitPrice MUST be associated with the SKUPriceID in the provider published pricing sheet. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeType is ‘Purchase’ or ‘Usage’. The SkuPriceId SHOULD NOT be null when ChargeSubcategory is ‘Refund’.
```

> The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. SkuPriceId MUST define a single unit price used for calculating the charge. The ListUnitPrice MUST be associated with the SKUPriceID in the provider published pricing sheet. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeType is ‘Purchase’ or ‘Usage’. The SkuPriceId SHOULD NOT be null when ChargeSubcategory is ‘Refund’.

Reviewer 2: Did we standardize on "price list"? (I'm not 100% sure.)
Quotes for consistency.
Switching the SHOULD to a MUST in line with ChargeSubcategory.
```suggestion
The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. SkuPriceId MUST define a single unit price used for calculating the charge. The ListUnitPrice MUST be associated with the SKUPriceID in the provider published price list. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeType is "Purchase" or "Usage". The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when ChargeSubcategory is "Refund" and the refund is related to charges with a specific SkuPriceId.
```

## Column ID

SkuPriceId

## Display name

SKU Price ID

## Description

> A unique identifier that defines the list unit price associated with the charge. This can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the list unit price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A unique identifier that defines the unit price used to calculate the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information, including a corresponding list unit price
```

> A unique identifier that defines the unit price used to calculate the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information, including a corresponding list unit price.

Reviewer 2: nit: We usually only use one sentence. Do you feel the second is critical in the one-line short description?
```suggestion
Unique identifier that defines the unit price used to calculate the charge.
```

### SKU Price ID

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the unit price associated with the SKU of the charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines a unit price associated with the SKU of the charge. If providers define their prices at the SKU level, the SKU ID and and SKU Price ID shall be the same value. Every SKU must have one or more SKU prices, identified by SKU Price ID. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the identified unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from between providers.
```

Consolidating description && being more explicit about nature of relationship of skuPriceId : skuId

Author: @udam-f2 just finessed this section earlier today, so I'd want his input.

Reviewer 4: @aqu-erp why 'a unit price' vs 'the unit price'? The sku price id is the unique ID that we want to see here that's associated with the charge right?

Reviewer 3: To my ear, 'the unit price' implies that the identified price is the only price for the SKU, which may not be true

> that defines `the only` unit price associated with the SKU of the charge

whereas, 'a unit price' leaves room for one or many

> that defines `a` unit price `of potentially many that are` associated with the SKU of the charge

Author: Per discussion at the member meeting, SKU ID will now be defined by SKU Price ID, and therefore much of this language will be moved to the definition for SKU ID.

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price that is used to bill the SKU of the charge. This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the unit price associated with the SKU of the charge. This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.
```

Reviewer 5: >  that defines the unit price associated with the SKU of the charge

It looks to me with this formulation that a SKU has a single unit price, which is not true.

Instead, the formulation "that defines the price that is used to bill the SKU of the charge" highlights that a unit price has been selected to bill the SKU.

> Every SKU has one or more SKU Prices.  For providers that define their prices at the SKU level, the SKU ID and SKU Price ID shall be the same.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Author: Resolution dependent on conversation above.

Author: Resolving per previous comment.

> Every SKU has one or more SKU Prices.  For providers that define their prices at the SKU level, the SKU ID and SKU Price ID shall be the same.

Reviewer 4: Wondering if others think this should be incorporated into the middle of the above paragraph. Typically, we try to avoid a second description paragraph for a column unless there's a lot to describe (there are cases where we describe a concept like 'charge period' in the first paragraph because we didn't have the glossary in 0.5 but those will be removed and moved to the glossary in v1.0.

Author: Feel free to make a suggestion and I'll incorporate.

The SkuPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The SkuPriceId MUST NOT be null when the corresponding SkuId is not null. When SkuId is null, SkuPriceId MUST be null.

#### Column ID

> SkuPriceID

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
SkuPriceId
```

### SKU Price ID

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge. This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.

Author: That verbiage attempts to explain to the practitioner what this column is.  The VS3 team revised this paragraph as a group on yesterday's call, and we agreed that that context is helpful.

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge. This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.

Reviewer 5: > A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge.

While a charge relates to a single SKU and a single Quantity In Pricing Unit, it contains different costs: List Cost, Negotiated Cost, Effective Cost, Billed Cost.

Thus, I believe some clarity is expected by readers about which Unit Price the SKU Price ID is intended define.
Otherwise, too much room could be left for interpretation.

For example, let's consider the example of a VM usage that has 2 charges, because it is partly covered by a commitment-based discount:
- One charge where the VM usage is priced with commitment-based discount
- One charge where the VM is priced at the on-demand date
In this case, I believe the SKU Price ID would be different in the two charges.

Maybe to make it more precise:
> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price *that is used to bill the SKU in the charge.*

Author: I think that's a very fair point!  I will change.

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge. This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU. The composition of the detailed information associated with the price may differ from one provider to the next.

Author: Resolving this conversation, as it is handled per a separate suggestion you made.

Every SKU has one or more SKU Prices.  For providers that define their prices at the SKU level, the SKU ID and SKU Price ID shall be the same.

> The SKUPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The SKUId MUST NOT be null when the corresponding SKUId is not null. When SKUId is null, SKUPriceId MUST be null.

Reviewer 4: Looks like the SKUID PR is referring to the column id as SkuId and not SKUId. Did you all come to an agreement on if its SKU or Sku when an acronym is used in the column name? Notice that we only do this for when we reference the column by ColumnID (in the normative paragraph only). Otherwise we refer to the 'thing' by Display Name.

> The SKUPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The SKUId MUST NOT be null when the corresponding SKUId is not null. When SKUId is null, SKUPriceId MUST be null.

Author: We did not... I wasn't even aware it was a topic of debate (my assumption was acronym = capitalized).  Between this comment and Michael's comment on #245, I see now that it's not resolved.

> The SKUPriceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The SKUId MUST NOT be null when the corresponding SKUId is not null. When SKUId is null, SKUPriceId MUST be null.

Author: I resolved the casing naming convention via a separate commit.  Resolving this conversation.

#### Column ID

SKUPriceID

#### Display name

SKU Price ID

#### Description

An identifier assigned to the Unit Price associated with the SKU that incurred a charge.

#### Content constraints

|  Constraint      |  Value         |
| -------------------- | ------------------ |
|  Column required |  True          |
|  Data type       |  String        |
|  Allows nulls    |  True          |

> |  Value format    |  \<none specified\> |

Reviewer 4: nit: formatting

Author: Revised.

#### Introduced (version)

1.0

### Discussion / Scratch space

References

AWS - (<https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cur/latest/userguide/pricing-columns.html>)

Azure - (<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/automate/understand-usage-details-fields>)

Big Query - (<https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/export-data-bigquery-tables/detailed-usage>)

OCI - (<https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Billing/Concepts/usagereportsoverview.htm>)

Potato / Tomato v1 discussion: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-flGM09zj3QkjSk8hlJolujZiCzVVmwi3TxDTaFJ7qM/edit#heading=h.u4wfvautplvp>

Potato / Tomato v2 discussion:\

> <https://docs.google.com/document/d/18eL6G8WhbmEIHtrjqQlWqckgMRUQSs1aZwmwuRKQfqU/edit#heading=h.swm58hl317f3>

Author: Moved.

### SKUPriceID

> A unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge.  This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price, as referenced on a price list published by a provider.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A SKU Price ID is an identifier assigned to the unit price related information that’s associated with a charge. SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU.
```

Author: Discussed on VS3 call and decided on following language:

> A SKU Price ID is a unique identifier that defines the price of a SKU that incurred a charge.  This identifier represents a unique collection of nullable attributes that determine the price.  SKU Price ID can be referenced on a price list published by a provider to look up detailed information about the SKU and the unit price associated with the SKU.

> The composition of SKU Price attributes may differ from one provider to the next.  For example, the provider may use a Region to define the price, whereas another may use a Region to define the SKU itself.  Examples of SKU Price attributes may include, but are not limited to:

Reviewer 4: Would be great if we don't have to mention these attributes and instead just state that things like Tier, Term and payment options can be associated with the SKU or the SKU Price and that the id will be the same as SKU when the unit price is directly attached to the SKU. 

I think you've done a good job of describing here but we've leaned towards avoiding adding a bunch of descriptions into the column definition and instead depended on having details like this in an appendix OR the glossary now that it will be in v1.0.

Author: Will put SKU and SKU Price into the glossary and remove this section.

> - Term (e.g. On Demand, Reserved, Savings Plan)
> - Tier (e.g. Free, Low Tier, High Tier)
> - Tier Range (e.g. 0 to 20k, 20k to 40k)
> - Commitment Length (e.g. 1 Year, 3 Years)
> - Payment Option (e.g. No Upfront, Partial Upfront)
> 
> Future versions of the FOCUS specification may include more precise definitions of those attributes.  In the interim, the SKU Price ID can be used in concert with an externally-sourced price sheet to facilitate practitioner data modeling and analysis. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: Discussed with VS3 and will remove.
